# Response: [Hearing vs. Listening](https://youtu.be/_QHfOuRrJB8)

Oliveros's discussion of the distinction between the more sensory, "superficial" act of hearing versus the internalized, cerebral act of listening made me reflect on how I've heard or listened in the past, especially when playing music. Being a sound-color synesthete made things like playing the piano an equally visual and auditory learning task. I was never good at sightreading, but over time, I found that I was able to learn and replicate pieces by ear without necessarily looking at the sheet music.

These discoveries proved especially useful when I learned to play the saxophone and discovered jazz. Aside from simple things like being able to tune my sax by ear, I also began treating jazz and music in general as a language to learn. Improvising over chords was oddly natural because I intuitively "knew" which notes sounded good, or maybe even discordant in a good way. I listened obsessively to albums upon albums of anything remotely jazz-related - anything from 1920s big band swing to Coltrane-esque hard bop to Space-Age fusion. And by internalizing all the different "licks" and motifs that I discovered from these musicians, traces and influences of these motifs slowly found their way into my improv solos.

For me, hearing versus listening sounds in general is similar to hearing versus listening languages: it's trivial to hear a language being spoken to you, but to actually listen and understand on a certain level the meaning of what is being spoken requires not necesasrily an understanding of the language, but perhaps in small part some context clues like body language, expression, tone, etc. Analogously, hearing a sound is a passive act; listening to that sound and interpreting it is an active act.
