# Response: *Beyond Being There*

The paper's analogy relating telecommunication systems to crutches and shoes really resonated with me. Telecommunication tools like Zoom, when treated or thought of as a medium, can be crutches or shoes depending on how they are used or approached. During quarantine, most people used Zoom as a crutch to "make the best of a bad situation," as the paper put it. If in-person meetings are the "norm," then Zoom served as a Band-Aid to simulate the in-person experience without actually being in-person. To this end, Zoom provides endpoints for camera, microphone, and other modes of commmunication to try to capture that "normal" feeling of being present with other people.

Interestingly, the paper also notes how many (especially early) telecommunications systems were entrenched in this crutch mindset - that is, that telecommunication should try to emulate real-life interactions as closely as possible. The paper goes on to propose that telecommunication doesn't necessarily need to conform to the constraints and structures that real-life interactions tend to follow; instead, technology allows for novel modes of communication that may not be feasible in the physical world.

Many online platforms, whether intentionally or not, seem to agree with this ideology; VRChat, for example, provides opportunities to assume alternate identities and socialize inside alternate realities. Inside VRChat, your virtual self moves alongside your physical self; however, the system is governed by its own set of arbitrary rules that provide a wildly different experience from reality. People frequent VRChat for a variety of reasons, ranging from mundane social interactions to artistic collaborations or even long-distance relationships. Several YouTube channels have gained popularity (e.g. [Syrmor](https://www.youtube.com/c/syrmor), [Azeal](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UClLOsBKtKS8i9N12l6Uza3g)) in which interviews with people from all walks of life are conducted inside VRChat spaces. The anonymity and self-expression that VRChat's avatar customization affords give interviewees a level of comfort and safety to open up about their experiences.
